¿Puede Claude Opus 4.8 animar personajes en Blender? - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=14RNgTbzCbg

Transcript:
(00:00) With the recent drop of Anthropics Opus 4.8, I wanted to test it inside of Blender to see how well it can animate characters. I recently made a video of Opus 4.7 animating characters with rigs inside of Blender. And it did okay. It wasn't perfect. It wasn't great, but obviously there is a ton of room for improvement.
(00:19) And before we jump in, I want to go over some of the stats that I think are important and apply to animating characters inside of Blender on Opus 4.8. The biggest stat I want to focus on is this agentic computer use. And I know it's not a lot, but it does matter with this increase of 83.4%. Agentic computer use is essentially how Claude interacts with your computer and how it recreates human interaction with your computer UI or whatever software you're using or in this example, Blender, rigging, key framing, and animating. So, according to this table
(00:48) right here, it's supposed to be better at utilizing your computer and all the softwares that you use. And so, just to give you a really quick teaser of what we're gonna be going over today is how we can actually use Claude Opus 4.8 to animate this in Blender. This scene was completely created with Blender including the camera movements on the character, the actual character walking himself and then the full environment which was built with Claude.
(01:10) Very, very simple, but it is getting better and better every single day. So, I'm essentially going to show you how I recreated this scene using just Claude and a fully MV Blender project file. Before we jump in, I just want to let you guys know that I've dropped all of my resources for this project, including a claude.
(01:28) md file that walks you and Claude through the entire setup process of how to animate a character inside of Blender using Claude inside of my free school community. It's completely free to join and use the resources. You can download on your computer and set it up for yourself. You also can meet some really cool people in the creative AI space.
(01:45) So, I highly recommend that you join. So, there's a few things that we need to download before we actually start prompting Claude and animating characters in Blender. Firstly, I am signed up for Blender Studio where you can get access to all of their assets, characters, and libraries. If you go into assets, you can download the characters rigged by Blender professionals.
(02:03) You can see there, you can see there's a bunch of different examples here. And today, I just went with the Storm character. All you got to do is sign up. Yes, it is $15 a month, but you also need to realize Blender is a completely free open- source platform. So, I highly encourage you to support the Blender community by joining Blender Studio. This is not sponsored.
(02:19) I just am encouraging to support. All you got to do is download the character file. And once you download it, it'll give you a blend file that you can then open up inside of Blender. Now that I have the Storm V1 downloaded, I can double click on this and it will open up Blender for me.
(02:33) Now, you can obviously start rigging inside of Blender yourself, start learning how to animate and bring a character to life inside of Blender. but we're going to connect Claude and see how well it does with actually one setting up the scene and two animating the character to what we want. Now, the next thing you're going to need is to download VS Code so we can install the Claude Code extension into VS Code to start building up our project.
(02:54) Download this for Mac or Windows. And when you open it, you're going to see something like this. You might not have Claude Code already loaded up. If you don't have Claude installed inside of VS Code, all you got to do is click this extensions button right here and then find the Claude for VS Code. Download it. It'll say install right here.
(03:09) They will bring you to an authorization page where you sign in with your Claude account. You do need a paid account to be working inside of Claude Code. Once you've signed up and you've author authorized your account, you then can pull up the Claude chat box or the extension with this little Claude oranthropic button right here.
(03:27) And so now that you have VS Code installed and you have the Claude Code extension installed into VS Code and you have the Blender MCP and Claude Code connection set up, verified and ready to go, we can now start actually working inside of Claude to animate our character. If you have any questions, feel free to drop them in the Free School community.
(03:44) I I try to answer as soon as possible. So in that free school community link to this post, you can see the Claude Blender character animation guide to actually start prompting to generate animations on your characters. This is a super long MD file and essentially this just walks Claude through how it can actually start animating your characters inside of Blender.
(04:02) Now, I'm not going to read through this whole thing. All I'm going to do is just copy the path of this MD file and paste it into my chat box in the extension. And also, just a reminder, your Blender is already up and running and you have your character loaded in. Now, what we're going to do next, we're just going to say to Claude, read through this MD file.
(04:20) I want to start animating the character inside of Blender that's connected already. Super simple prompt. Nothing very in-depth at all because everything lives inside of this Claude Blender character animation guide right here. I'm going to shoot this off and everything is going to start getting set up.
(04:35) So Claude's going to read through that entire MD file. It's going to read each of the steps. So step zero, one all the way to to step seven. It's then going to analyze the rig structure that's already made on the Blender character. So you can watch this as it works. It's just verifying it's understanding everything and then it's going to prompt you through some questions, some interactive questions.
(04:54) So, what motion do you want rain to perform which this is storm so I don't know why this is saying rain. So, you have some options here. You can do a confident walk, a run or a jog or something expression, something expressive. So, you can prompt it to do something else like waving, standing, leaning, sitting down.
(05:10) Honestly, your imagination can go wild with this. So, if you don't know how to animate inside of Blender, which personally I don't have a ton of experience in, but I do know how to build in Clawude, this is a great way to start testing out some of your animation skills in Blender. So, I'm just going to go with the default, which is the confident walk.
(05:24) And this is going to go pull from a GitHub repo on various different animations so it can reference. So, it's not just going in blind. It has a reference in the background. And if you're wondering specifically which GitHub repo it's using if you want to plug it into your project yourself. It's also inside of the guide MD file that I have provided in the free school community.
(05:42) This is just where it's going to pull all of the different gestures or animations that I can reference to animate on top of. So I'm just going to go with that confident walk. I'll submit my answer and I'll let it keep building. Okay. So now it's going to create a list for itself to check off.
(05:56) So, it's going to download the CMU clip from the mocap library. And it's just going to go through each one of these and check off and verify that yes, I did this. Yes, I did this. Let's move on to the next thing all the way to the final product or animation where your character is walking inside of your Blender viewport.
(06:12) Okay, right off the bat, and I want to point this out, iteration is really important inside of Clawude. You need to point out the mistakes that's making. As you can see right now, it's it's pinning his hands and they're stretching as he's walking. And then you can see his feet are crossing together. So that looks super unnatural.
(06:28) The other body movements look fine, but this needs to be fixed and this needs to be fixed. And so what I shot off to Claude as I interrupted the session and just said, "I found a mistake. The legs are crossing. Separate those. The feet are crossing. Separate those. The hands are getting stuck. So when he's walking, his hands stay in place and his arms stretch.
(06:44) So I'm just going to update it and make sure that it understands. It's making this mistake so it can save in its memory to not do that again." This happens with Claude all the time. you're going to run into mistakes and errors, but if you want to build actual skills and templates off of Claude, you're gonna have to correct its mistakes.
(07:01) It's not 100% correct every single time. So, I just wanted to point that out. And after some iteration, we get something like this that we can actually work with now. So, now what we're going to do is we're going to create an environment like what I showed in the beginning of the video. This time, I'm going to do something a little different.
(07:13) I This time I'm going to do something a little different. So, I'm going to go back into Claude and just prompt it. Create a low poly force scene and then add a camera that is panned to the left side of the character walking from the waist up. Add some depth of field so you just see the character and the background of the force is blurred.
(07:33) Again, a very simple prompt. I'm going to shoot this off and then see what we get. Okay. And boom, we get a render just like this. This is just one image, but if we go out and look at the viewport, we can see if we go into our camera, the camera follows the character. We definitely need some iteration here.
(07:47) We definitely need to zoom this out a little bit. We can just prompt claw to do that. And if we go into our rendered viewport, we can see that we have our character. I am noticing on the side here, he's got a really weird position. So, I definitely need to update some of that, some iteration. But again, that's just what comes with prompting in Clawude to animate a character in Blender.
(08:04) But this is pretty good for maybe 15 minutes of my time just prompting to create something in Blender like an animation like this. You can do this. Now, this is the cool thing with Claude and Opus 4.8. has really good agentic computer use and visual and visual reasoning. So, it will take screenshots of its renders and update based off of that.
(08:23) So, if you like AI content like this, feel free to hit that subscribe button. It means the world to me. And also join the free school community where I drop all of my free resources and you can meet some really cool people in the creative AI space. That's all in the description below. If you guys have any suggestions on what I should animate next or what I should build next with AI or Claude, feel free to let me know in the comments below.
(08:41) And so, I'm going to leave you guys with that for today. And as always, I will see you guys in the next